Firebase overhaul (#378)
adaptyteam/adapty-docs: src/content/docs/version-3.0/firebase-and-google-analytics.mdx

---
title: "Firebase and Google Analytics"

> description: "Send Adapty subscription events to Firebase Analytics and Google Analytics 4 — power Audiences, Remote Config, Crashlytics, and Google Ads attribution."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "Send Adapty subscription events to Firebase and Google Analytics 4 — power Audiences, Remote Config, Crashlytics, Google Ads attribution, and other Firebase tools."
```

Нет понятия Firebase Analytics — лучше везде Firebase

metadataTitle: "Firebase and Google Analytics | Adapty Docs"

> keywords: ['firebase', 'firebase analytics', 'google analytics', 'ga4', 'audiences', 'remote config', 'integration']

Reviewer: ```suggestion
keywords: ['firebase', 'google analytics', 'ga4']
```
Надо поаккуратнее с кивордами — они сильно влияют на поиск по доке

---

import ZoomImage from '@site/src/components/ZoomImage.astro';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import SdkIntegrationNote from '@site/src/components/reusable/SdkIntegrationNote.mdx';
import InlineTooltip from '@site/src/components/InlineTooltip';

> import CustomDocCardList from '@site/src/components/CustomDocCardList';

Reviewer: У нас многие импорты авторегаются в проекте — можешь спросить у Клода, что надо, а что не надо добавлять

> Adapty can pass subscription events — purchases, renewals, refunds, trial starts — to Firebase and Google Analytics 4. The two products share a backend, so a single 

Reviewer: Лучше писать просто Google Analytics — в доке Firebase так

> integration delivers data to both. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Adapty can pass subscription events — purchases, renewals, refunds, trial starts — to Firebase and Google Analytics 4, so a single integration delivers data to both. 
```

:::warning

> You need both a Firebase project and a linked GA4 property — even if you only use one. Firebase Analytics is built on GA4. GA4 can't take mobile data without Firebase.

Reviewer: Давай вместо GA4 и Google Analytics везде юзать Google Analytics — так будет консистентнее с тем, как гугл это делает

> You need both a Firebase project and a linked GA4 property — even if you only use one. Firebase Analytics is built on GA4. GA4 can't take mobile data without Firebase.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need both a Firebase project and a linked Google Analytics property — even if you only use one. Firebase Analytics and Google Analytics are the same data in two consoles.
```

:::

> Each event arrives with revenue, currency, and product details attached. The same data feeds Firebase's mobile tools (Audiences, Remote Config, Crashlytics, etc.) and GA4's reporting / attribution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Purchase and refund events arrive with revenue, currency, and product details attached. The same data feeds Firebase's mobile tools (Audiences, Remote Config, etc.) and GA4's reporting.
```

Сгладила опасные формулировки

This is an analytics integration, not a Google Ads attribution tool — see [Limitations](#limitations).

## What you can do with this integration

Adapty groups users by `subscription_state` (`subscribed`, `active_trial`, `never_subscribed`, etc.) and forwards subscription lifecycle events to Firebase and GA4.

> - **Audiences**: Target users by subscription state across Firebase and GA4.

Reviewer: Важное из старого дока, чтобы не продавать то, что мы уже умеем: Adapty segments already do in-app targeting; the point of Google Analytics/Firebase audiences is reaching external channels (Google Ads, FCM).

- **Google Ads conversions** *(GA4)*: Use `purchase` and `refund` as Google Ads conversion goals.

> - **Firebase Remote Config**: Change rate limits, copy, or feature flags without an app update. (Not to be confused with [Adapty Remote Config](customize-paywall-with-remote-config), which configures paywall content.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Firebase Remote Config**: Change rate limits, copy, or feature flags without an app update. (Not to be confused with [Adapty Remote Config](customize-paywall-with-remote-config), which configures flow/paywall content.)
```

> - **Firebase Remote Config**: Change rate limits, copy, or feature flags without an app update. (Not to be confused with [Adapty Remote Config](customize-paywall-with-remote-config), which configures paywall content.)

Reviewer: И ещё: The integration lets you condition config on subscription state.

> - **In-App Messaging**: Show modals and banners to specific subscriber groups — win-back, trial nudges, onboarding.

Reviewer: Нужен рефрейминг, чтобы не продавать людям то, что делает Адапти. Или убери, или замени то, что связано с монетизацией в примерах. Можно какие-то продуктовые анонсы добавить сюда, например

- **Cloud Messaging**: Push notifications to lapsed subscribers when the app is closed.
- **Cross-device tracking** *(GA4)*: Adapty sends `customer_user_id` to GA4 so Google Ads can track the same person across devices.

> - **Crashlytics**: With extra app-side code (custom `subscription_state` keys), breaks crash reports down by paying vs. free users.

Reviewer: Это не связано достаточно сильно с самой интеграцией, я бы убрала

- **Conversion funnels** *(GA4)*: See what users did in your app before converting or churning.
- **Predictions**: Forecast churn and spending using purchase history.

> - **A/B Testing**: Test app features on subscriber cohorts — for example, roll out a new flow to trial users and measure trial-to-paid conversion. (For paywall variants, use [Adapty A/B Tests](ab-tests).)

Reviewer: Change the example to a clearly non-monetization feature (e.g., "a new home-screen layout") so it doesn't read as "A/B test your paywall flow in Firebase instead of Adapty."

> ## How does this integration work

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How the integration works
```

1. When a user first opens your app, the Firebase SDK creates a unique identifier for the installation — the **Firebase App Instance ID**. Firebase Analytics and GA4 use this ID to identify the installation responsible for each event.
2. Your app passes the Firebase App Instance ID to Adapty's SDK. Adapty links the user's profile to this Firebase installation.
3. When the user makes a purchase, Adapty's servers forward the event to Firebase with the Firebase App Instance ID attached. The data is exchanged server-to-server, outside the app.
4. Firebase matches the purchase to the installation, so you can see purchases alongside everything else the user did in the app.

:::note
A Firebase App Instance ID is device-specific. When the same Adapty user opens the app on another device, the new Firebase ID overwrites the previous one. Use a [customer user ID](identifying-users) to maintain user identity across devices.

> :::

Reviewer: Не хватает ещё этой инфы про страйп (можешь в другом формате где-то отметить)

:::note
Stripe purchases use the same mechanism. Adapty forwards them with the same Firebase App Instance ID and the iOS event map — there's no separate web path. A Stripe purchase only reaches Firebase if the buyer's Adapty profile already carries a Firebase App Instance ID, which your mobile app sets via setIntegrationIdentifier. In practice this covers buyers who also use your app (matched by customer user ID); a web-only buyer who never installed the app has no Firebase App Instance ID, so their purchase isn't forwarded.
:::

### Limitations

> - **Not a Google Ads attribution tool.** This integration sends Adapty events into Firebase and GA4 for analytics. It doesn't attribute app installs to Google Ads campaigns (UAC / Universal App Campaigns) or separate paid traffic from organic. For install attribution, use Adapty's built-in [User Acquisition](adapty-user-acquisition) or a third-party MMP like [AppsFlyer](appsflyer) or [Adjust](adjust).

Reviewer: Прикол — они реально GA4 переименовали, кстати. Теперь официально только Google Analytics правильный вариант

> - **Not a Google Ads attribution tool.** This integration sends Adapty events into Firebase and GA4 for analytics. It doesn't attribute app installs to Google Ads campaigns (UAC / Universal App Campaigns) or separate paid traffic from organic. For install attribution, use Adapty's built-in [User Acquisition](adapty-user-acquisition) or a third-party MMP like [AppsFlyer](appsflyer) or [Adjust](adjust).

Reviewer: > User Acquisition
Продукт называется Adapty User Acquisition

> - **No historical backfill.** Adapty forwards events from activation onward — past purchases, renewals, and refunds never reach Firebase. (Past data lives in Adapty's [S3](s3-exports) / [GCS](google-cloud-storage) exports, but importing it into Firebase isn't part of this integration.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **No historical backfill.** Adapty forwards events from the time you enable the integration — past purchases, renewals, and refunds never reach Firebase. (Past data lives in Adapty's [S3](s3-exports) / [GCS](google-cloud-storage) exports, but importing it into Firebase isn't part of this integration.)
```

> - **This integration only carries mobile-app purchases.** No mobile app means no Firebase ID. Users who pay on the web without installing the app don't reach Firebase this way. To track web users, take advantage of [FunnelFox's Firebase integration](https://funnelfox.com/docs/integrations/subscription-management/adapty) or GA4's web data stream.

Reviewer: Надо консолидировать буллет пойнты 3 и 5. они друг другу противоречат

На самом деле Stripe is forwarded, but only for profiles that already carry a mobile-set firebase_app_instance_id

- **Paddle purchases aren't included.** This integration doesn't currently support Paddle. Paddle purchases stay in Adapty Analytics and don't reach Firebase via this path.
- **Stripe purchases inherit Adapty's Stripe integration limitations.** See [Stripe integration limitations](stripe#current-limitations).

## Setup instructions

### Configure Firebase

1. Open [Firebase Console](https://console.firebase.google.com/) and select or create a project. To keep production analytics clean from sandbox events, use a separate Firebase project for development builds.

> 2. Link the project to a GA4 property. Required even for Firebase-only users. Firebase prompts you during project creation, or add it later via **Project settings** > **Integrations** > **Google Analytics**.

Reviewer: > Required even for Firebase-only users. 

я бы тут перефразировала в "требуется для..."

    <ZoomImage id="firebase-analytics-integration-settings.webp" width="700px" alt="Adapty Dashboard Firebase integration settings page" />

3. In **Project settings** > **General** > **Your apps**, add an entry for each platform you ship on (iOS / Android / Web). For Stripe, add a Web app entry — there's no native Stripe app type. Each entry generates a unique **Firebase App ID** and a corresponding data stream in Google Analytics. You'll paste the ID into Adapty's Firebase integration settings during the setup.

    <ZoomImage id="firebase-app-id.webp" width="700px" alt="Firebase Console showing the App ID for an iOS app entry" />

### Configure Adapty

1. Open [**Integrations** > **Firebase**](https://app.adapty.io/integrations/firebase) in the Adapty Dashboard.

2. Enable the **Firebase integration** toggle.

3. Enter credentials for each platform you ship on. Adapty needs both a **Firebase App ID** and a **Google Analytics API secret** for each platform:

   | Field | Where to find it |
   | --- | --- |
   | **Firebase App ID** (iOS / Android / Stripe) | Firebase Console > **Project settings** > **General** > **Your apps**. Each entry has its own App ID. |

>    | **Google Analytics API secret** (iOS / Android / Stripe) | Google Analytics > **Admin** > **Data streams** (app platform) > **Measurement Protocol API secrets** > **Create**. The secret is platform-specific. |

Reviewer: Google Analytics secret for iOS / Android / Stripe лучше используй

>    | **Google Analytics API secret** (iOS / Android / Stripe) | Google Analytics > **Admin** > **Data streams** (app platform) > **Measurement Protocol API secrets** > **Create**. The secret is platform-specific. |

Reviewer: ещё, мб, чётче пояснить, что да, они оч по-разному называются, но мы называем это так, а они так

   <ZoomImage id="ga4-firebase-secret.webp" width="700px" alt="Google Analytics Measurement Protocol API secret creation screen" />

4. Configure how Adapty forwards revenue and user data. The four controls share one row in the dashboard:

   - **Revenue definition** dropdown: Gross revenue, Proceeds after store commission, or [Proceeds after store commission and taxes](controls-filters-grouping-compare-proceeds#display-gross-or-net-revenue).
   - **Send user properties** toggle: When on, events include `subscription_state` and `subscription_product_id`. To use them in reports or audiences, see [Use subscription data in reports](#use-subscription-data-in-reports-and-audiences).
   - **Report user's currency** toggle: When on, Adapty converts every transaction's local currency to your account's reporting currency before forwarding to GA4.

>    - **Send trial price** toggle: Trial starts are valuable — most paying users start with a trial. But Google Ads' bid optimization only treats events with revenue as worth chasing. Turn this on to assign a placeholder price to each trial so Google sees them as conversions and optimizes ad spend toward acquiring trial starters. When on, the **Trial price multiplier** field appears. Set it to the share of the full subscription price that Google should treat each trial as worth — for example, `50%` reports half the subscription price during trial.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - **Send trial price** toggle: Trial starts are valuable — most paying users often start with a trial. But Google Ads' bid optimization only treats events with revenue as worth chasing. Turn this on to assign a placeholder price to each trial so Google sees them as conversions and optimizes ad spend toward acquiring trial starters. When on, the **Trial price percentage** field appears. Set it to the share of the full subscription price that Google should treat each trial as worth — for example, `50%` reports half the subscription price during trial.
```

    :::

   <ZoomImage id="ios-event-map-firebase.webp" width="700px" alt="Adapty Dashboard Firebase event names configuration" />

6. Click **Save**. Adapty starts forwarding events to Firebase within a few minutes.

### Configure your app code

:::tip
Make sure your app includes the <InlineTooltip tooltip="Firebase SDK">[iOS](https://firebase.google.com/docs/ios/setup), [Android](https://firebase.google.com/docs/android/setup), [Flutter](https://firebase.google.com/docs/flutter/setup), [Unity](https://firebase.google.com/docs/unity/setup), [React Native](https://rnfirebase.io/), and [Capacitor](https://github.com/capawesome-team/capacitor-firebase)</InlineTooltip>.
:::

Adapty needs to include the **Firebase App Instance ID** with each event — otherwise nothing reaches Firebase (`MISSING_INTEGRATION_ID`).

After `FirebaseApp.configure()` and `Adapty.activate()`, ask the Firebase SDK for the App Instance ID. Pass it to Adapty via `setIntegrationIdentifier`. Run this once per app launch, before any purchase flow.

<SdkIntegrationNote />

<Tabs groupId="current-os" queryString>

> <TabItem value="swift" label="iOS (Swift)" default>

Reviewer: Надо добавить ещё табу перед этим и разделить на v4+ и более старые версии

Для v4+ сниппет будет такой

```
import FirebaseCore
import FirebaseAnalytics

FirebaseApp.configure()

if let appInstanceId = Analytics.appInstanceID() {
    do {
        try await Adapty.setIntegrationIdentifier(.firebaseAppInstanceId(appInstanceId))
    } catch {
        // handle the error
    }
}
```

:::

Adapty needs to include the **Firebase App Instance ID** with each event — otherwise nothing reaches Firebase (`MISSING_INTEGRATION_ID`).

After `FirebaseApp.configure()` and `Adapty.activate()`, ask the Firebase SDK for the App Instance ID. Pass it to Adapty via `setIntegrationIdentifier`. Run this once per app launch, before any purchase flow.

<SdkIntegrationNote />

<Tabs groupId="current-os" queryString>
<TabItem value="swift" label="iOS (Swift)" default>

<Tabs groupId="sdk-version" queryString>
<TabItem value="v3" label="Adapty SDK v3" default>

```swift showLineNumbers
import FirebaseCore
import FirebaseAnalytics

FirebaseApp.configure()

if let appInstanceId = Analytics.appInstanceID() {
    do {
        try await Adapty.setIntegrationIdentifier(
            key: "firebase_app_instance_id",
            value: appInstanceId
        )
    } catch {
        // handle the error
    }
}
```

</TabItem>

> <TabItem value="v4" label="Adapty SDK v4+">

Reviewer: v4 должно быть перед v3

            task.Result,
            (error) => {
                // handle the error
            }
        );
    });
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="rn" label="React Native (TS)">

```typescript showLineNumbers
import analytics from '@react-native-firebase/analytics';
import { adapty } from 'react-native-adapty';

try {
    const appInstanceId = await analytics().getAppInstanceId();
    if (appInstanceId) {
        await adapty.setIntegrationIdentifier("firebase_app_instance_id", appInstanceId);
    }
} catch (error) {
    // handle `AdaptyError`
}
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="kmp" label="Kotlin Multiplatform">

```kotlin showLineNumbers
// No first-party Firebase KMP SDK exposes the App Instance ID today
// (GitLive's firebase-analytics omits it). Declare an expect function
// and implement it per target:
//   iOS:     Analytics.appInstanceID()
//   Android: FirebaseAnalytics.getInstance(context).appInstanceId
val appInstanceId: String = getFirebaseAppInstanceId()

Adapty.setIntegrationIdentifier("firebase_app_instance_id", appInstanceId)
    .onSuccess {
        // successful set
    }
    .onError { error ->
        // handle the error
    }
```

</TabItem>

> <TabItem value="capacitor" label="Capacitor">

Reviewer: теоретически это правильно, но **давай не будем сейчас добавлять новые сниппеты**. проблема в том, что, когда добавляешь новые сниппеты для интеграций, их надо тестировать, и это не оч просто, а у нас сейчас вообще нет ресурса тестирования для этого

Reviewer: а так у нас правило по таким сниппетам — добавлять их только тогда, когда просит клиент и есть конкретный приоритет

```typescript showLineNumbers
import { FirebaseAnalytics } from '@capacitor-firebase/analytics';
import { adapty } from '@adapty/capacitor';

try {
    const { appInstanceId } = await FirebaseAnalytics.getAppInstanceId();
    await adapty.setIntegrationIdentifier({
        key: "firebase_app_instance_id",
        value: appInstanceId,
    });
} catch (error) {
    // handle the error
}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Verify the integration

The fastest way to confirm events are flowing is Firebase DebugView:

1. On a test device, run your app with [Firebase debug mode enabled](https://firebase.google.com/docs/analytics/debugview#enable_debug_mode).
2. Trigger a sandbox purchase or any event you've enabled in the Adapty Dashboard.
3. Open Firebase Console > **Analytics** > **DebugView**. Events appear within seconds, with all parameters.

Standard reports — Realtime, Reports, audiences — populate within minutes to 24 hours, depending on the report. DebugView is the only place to confirm in real time.

> ## Use subscription data in reports and audiences

Reviewer: Надо упомянуть, что для этого в дашборде надо включить Send user properties

> This step is optional. By default, Firebase Analytics and GA4 hide user properties. To use `subscription_state` and `subscription_product_id` in reports, Explorations, or audiences, register each as a custom dimension. (Custom dimensions are configured in GA4 Admin — once registered, they're queryable in both Firebase Analytics and GA4 thanks to the shared backend.) Useful for filtering by subscription state, building Google Ads audiences of paying users, or feeding predictive models.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This step is optional. By default, Firebase Analytics and GA4 don't expose user properties. To use `subscription_state` and `subscription_product_id` in reports, Explorations, or audiences, register each as a custom dimension. (Custom dimensions are configured in GA4 Admin — once registered, they're queryable in both Firebase Analytics and GA4 thanks to the shared backend.) Useful for filtering by subscription state, building Google Ads audiences of paying users, or feeding predictive models.
```

> This step is optional. By default, Firebase Analytics and GA4 hide user properties. To use `subscription_state` and `subscription_product_id` in reports, Explorations, or audiences, register each as a custom dimension. (Custom dimensions are configured in GA4 Admin — once registered, they're queryable in both Firebase Analytics and GA4 thanks to the shared backend.) Useful for filtering by subscription state, building Google Ads audiences of paying users, or feeding predictive models.

Reviewer: > filtering by subscription state

Правило для всех доков по интеграциям: не предлагай людям то, что они могут сделать в адапти :)

> When you complete the setup, Adapty will populate these dimensions for upcoming events. Existing events won't be updated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you complete the setup, Adapty will populate these properties for upcoming events. Existing events won't be updated.
```

1. In Google Analytics, open **Admin** > **Custom definitions**.
    <ZoomImage id="firebase-ga4-custom-definitions.webp" width="700px" alt="Google Analytics Custom Definitions" />
2. Click **Create custom dimensions**.
3. For each property, set:
   - **Dimension name**: Any human-readable name, for example "Subscription state".
   - **Scope**: **User**.
   - **User property**: `subscription_state` or `subscription_product_id`. The name must match exactly — GA4 is case-sensitive.

    <ZoomImage id="ga4-new-custom-dimension.webp" width="500px" alt="Google Analytics New Custom Definition" />

## Troubleshooting

### Events don't appear in Firebase

> - Confirm the Firebase App Instance ID is set on the profile **before** the first purchase is made. Events without a Firebase ID do not reach Firebase, and yield the `MISSING_INTEGRATION_ID` error.

Reviewer: `MISSING_INTEGRATION_ID` — это с нашего бэка код
Там будет типа "User profile is missing firebase_app_instance_id."

- Confirm that the set of credentials (ID + secret) in Adapty match the platform.

### `access_level_updated` shows as failed in the Event Feed

`access_level_updated` is a **webhook-only event**. Adapty never attempts to deliver it to Firebase — but the Event Feed still lists it as a failed delivery. Ignore the line. Your integration is fine. To use this event, configure the [webhook integration](webhook).

### Sandbox events pollute production data

Adapty forwards sandbox and production transactions to the same Firebase project. See [Configure Firebase](#configure-firebase) — using a separate Firebase project for development builds avoids this entirely.

### Firebase undercounts revenue on StoreKit 2 apps

Firebase Analytics auto-logs an `in_app_purchase` event for every StoreKit 1 purchase — no code required. StoreKit 2 uses a different API. Firebase never sees those transactions.

The fallout: SK2-heavy apps without a separate revenue pipeline under-report by half or more — in Firebase, in GA4, and in every Google Ads campaign downstream. Bid optimization runs against the wrong number. Revenue reports show half the picture.

> The fix: pass `firebase_app_instance_id` to Adapty (see [Configure your app code](#configure-your-app-code)). Adapty forwards every purchase via the Measurement Protocol — revenue, currency, and product attached. For SK1 apps using this integration, Adapty's `purchase` event and Firebase's `in_app_purchase` fire side-by-side. They feed different GA4 metrics, so the standard revenue report doesn't double-count.

Reviewer: Кусок про SK1 технически неправильный. 

Надо вырезать вот это, чтобы всё было ок:

> For SK1 apps using this integration, Adapty's `purchase` event and Firebase's `in_app_purchase` fire side-by-side. They feed different GA4 metrics, so the standard revenue report doesn't double-count.

> ### Adapty Analytics and Firebase numbers diverge

Reviewer: Давай тут ещё ссылку на секцию про сторкит сделаем

- **SDK adoption**: Firebase only counts events from users whose app sends a Firebase App Instance ID. Older app versions don't make that call. Adapty still counts those users; Firebase doesn't.
- **Sandbox events**: Adapty forwards sandbox transactions to Firebase too. Use a separate Firebase project for development builds to keep them apart.
- **Sampling**: GA4 Explorations sample large datasets. For unsampled counts, check the Realtime view or standard reports.

### Custom event names are rejected by GA4

GA4 limits event names to 40 characters, alphanumeric and underscores only, starting with a letter. Rename any custom Adapty events in the dashboard that violate these limits.

## Related articles

> <CustomDocCardList />

Reviewer: 1. Как будто тут особо нет связанных статей никаких
2. Сейчас это просто пустая секция, потому что этот компонент без заданных article ID использует дочерние страницы в сайдбаре, а их у этой статьи нет
